hey what's going on everybody good
morning good afternoon good evening no
matter where you're coming from hope you
all are doing well you know what like
it just doesn't get old sometimes i come
to to come to the desk i'm like all
right time time to get into it time to
teach and then the that song comes on
and you feel it i don't know it does
something gets me going
what's going on everybody
welcome back hope you're doing well
i know i know we uh
we did a raise on tuesday so i'm glad
that you're still here with us on a
thursday
because it can get a little rough in the
beginning but
proud of every single one of you that
come back time and time again
when html hit you you showed back up
when css came at you you showed back up
when javascript got weird and looked a
little bit like math you showed
back up
that's how you get to the promised land
folks
you keep pushing
we're gonna push we're going to review
we're going to push we're going to
review so we pushed a lot on tuesday i
know we pushed a lot on tuesday but now
we're going to come back
we're going to get our active recall in
our space repetition in we're going to
carry these boats we're going to carry
these logs and we're going to get there
together
all right folks
glad to see you're here
thank you macro we go glad to see you're
here glad to see you're doing well we
got we got some fun tonight we're gonna
we're gonna go back to some basic
functions and we're gonna see a raise
all over again
from the beginning we're gonna cover
each topic again but this time we're
gonna do slightly different examples
we're gonna see it from slightly
different angles we're gonna take our
time we got questions we're gonna answer
those questions i know when we get to a
raise it's the point where
there's a lot of substitution there's a
lot of this equals that and it can get a
little
tough the reading can get a little tough
but guess what we're we're [__] tough
so we're going to get through it already
folks
glad you're here glad you're here let's
jump into it you know i like to do it
we're always going to start off with
some questions
you got some questions i got some
answers the question of the day uh and
this comes from the office episode the
hillary swank episode a raise
hot or not throw it in chat for me
please hot or not
a raise please hot or not
hot meaning they're feeling okay
not meaning not so much
i had a lot of hots
and a lot of hots i have spices
so hot
fetch should we say they're fetch
nice tepid
lukewarm
a lot of hot still okay i see you
a few knots here and there that's all
right that's what tonight's for a few
knots that's okay
it's good to feel a few knots here and
there means we're gonna get we're gonna
tonight's gonna be value to a lot of
folks
beautiful
all right we got some hot some knots
beautiful that isn't to happen i'm going
to make it happen
already folks
questions you got questions i got
answers always like to give folks a few
seconds to get in here
so if you got some questions i got some
answers
are they really called curly brackets
there there's there's a couple different
names for them uh figure braces
figure brackets curly braces uh people
call them all different things i like to
call them curly braces
because i'm
it's a dope thing to do and i do dope
things
is domino's sponsoring the stream
[Music]
who's the sponsor well the the sponsor
we announced on tuesday is microsoft
coming for our git and github class so
microsoft showing out for our get github
class if you don't know microsoft bought
git and github and so i'm sorry i bought
github
and so they're sponsoring our class that
class will be on the 31st so end of this
month is our get class and github is
sponsoring it uh microsoft's coming
through lots of swag we're doing laptops
we're doing it big if you've never been
here for a sponsored stream before
poof we go out so it's gonna be fun
we're gonna learn a lot but we're also
gonna have a lot of fun a lot of raffles
and a lot of cool stuff
will be bill gates give us a tour of his
magic toaster i mean we can ask right
uh what is your opinion on devops is it
possible for us to move into a devops
position it's a whole other um
it's a whole other beast
what we do is software engineers we
write the code everything from when
we're done writing code to it going live
on servers staying up making it easy for
developers to get their code live and
all the tools and systems behind it
that's devops so it's a whole kind of
different beast it's a whole other skill
set you would have to learn if you
wanted to go into that area
a really great streamer here on twitch
is mastermind and they do a lot of more
devops-y stuff so if you're ever
interested in that kind of thing
definitely check out some of their
streams they actually did a a boot camp
but they were like in person and they
streamed the in-person devos bootcamp
which is pretty cool
you know
is there a career that provides product
management with software engineering
yeah engineering management or just
technical project management so there
are technical pms that maybe aren't
slinging code every day but understand
enough to be able to advocate for their
team effectively
yeah
oh they're starting a new cohort muck
all right i'll have to find out some
details so i can share it with folks
can we do some fundamental code wars
together we will uh so
blah did an amazing article on getting
code war set up and then how to do a
code wars uh so i shared their
article with the last message on the
following materials channel and then i'm
gonna share their next like their like
how to do it uh video they actually did
like one live on the video so i'll share
that after class and then we'll do some
code wars together live as well we're
gonna we're gonna make a little little
game of it which i think will be fun
yeah
alrighty folks
let's get into it a lot of review
tonight i i really want to make sure we
can take our time and go into detail
spend a lot of time
uh making the nuns angry doing some
diagrams trying to make a raise sink in
a little bit better make a little bit
more sense we got lots of other cool
examples to get through lots of fingers
on keyboard practice tonight
but please ask questions as we go
through this
now
if you haven't already please go ahead
and check in exclamation point check in
here in uh
and different said leon i'm the fullest
stack i got devops back end front end
dbs mlai blockchain ui ux mobile desktop
that's why i need to go indifferent we
know why
uh so if you haven't already go to check
in for me please uh it really does help
folks find us
we might have scared a few folks away on
tuesdays let them know that we're
running back a raise tonight and so they
can come back and get the help that they
need for things to click a little bit
more so if you haven't already please i
really appreciate it
check in i also the review class is up
on youtube so our super review is back
up on youtube i fixed the weird error
that was there so if you want to watch
the super review it is on youtube you
can do exclamation point youtube and
watch it it's nine good hours i don't
know know what no it'll be cool if you
ever if you do watch it please give it a
like just so that more folks can find i
think it could be a really good entry
for folks that want to try out 100 devs
and so go ahead if you haven't already
please give it a like when you watch it
and um just leave it running if you got
to go do errands or something just let
it run let youtube think that you're
you're still there you know let it run
that way it gets served up to more folks
it's a night hour class you can let it
you can let it run it's all right leave
it in the background you nee you need
instead of instead of listening to lo-fi
right instead of listening to lo-fi you
can just put that nine hours in the
background let let my my sweet sounds
kind of
enable you to to get work done
alrighty there was a band that did that
i actually know if i can actually ask
you to do that there was a band
that um
made a
it was a it was a good name in the band
was but they made an album
that was
just not there was no noise
it was a full album but there was no
sound
and they asked all of their
all of their fans to just play it at
night
right
and play it at night so that
so that they would go up the spotify
rankings i always thought that was a
really cool idea um leon trying to make
that youtube money it's not monetized
folks the youtube is not monetized
no i just really want people to find it
and so that's why i ask you to like um
just so that folks can see it i really
do think it's a good way for folks into
100 devs and so yeah
they're called wolf pack that's the name
of the band ah that's funny that yeah
they made 20k before spotify stopped
them
that's funny
alrighty
so
uh
this one's a tough one i need a i need a
little bit more time
so
i have uh
the best news i could ever share
it's the best news i could ever share
uh it's something that i am immensely
excited for immensely proud of
it is the
biggest announcement that 100 devs has
ever had
and so
i really wanted to do it tonight
and i can't do it tonight because i had
some unfortunate stuff happen yesterday
um
so
i need a little bit more time
and we're gonna do it on tuesday
but i i also was i've been debating for
a while to say like what happened but
i'm gonna say it because i want somebody
if they're here
to understand something and then we're
going to move on
so
my wife is also an educator
and
last night one of their students was
unfortunately and this this is a a
trigger warning if you if you the next
few seconds could be a little it could
be some bad news so i'm just going to
give folks 10 seconds to mute me i'll
say it quick and then i'll i'll turn it
off
so unfortunately one of my wife's
students was shot and killed and so
we just spent the night together and
uh just
my time that i would have spent to
prepare for today
um
we that didn't happen so i spent the
night with my wife just
just being together um and unfortunately
that's not the the first time we've had
to do that and so
i know this learning to code
stuff it's fun
i know that it
can mean a better life for you and your
family
but for a lot of people
or a lot of my past students it's a way
out
it's a way out to a life that can be
very very dangerous and so
if you are here
and you need that way out
i got you
we'll make it happen you let me know
that that's what you need i got you
so i wanted to put that out there
because somebody might need to hear that
tonight
and i hope
that you take it to heart
i hope that you put in the work
the hustle that you use can be a hustle
that can help you on the way out and so
i i wanted to put that out there and uh
give me a little bit more time on
tuesday we'll do it right we'll do it
big um but need a little bit more time a
little more time
all right
uh also
we had a lot of a lot of other kind of
things that had that i was going to
announce today too so we we still have
some fancy stuff to announce on tuesday
as well
um zeus thank you for the gift it subs i
appreciate you um the the the fancy
stuff we have the
of course
best funniest portfolio and sorry not
the best the funniest portfolio and the
funnest project uh we'll announce those
on tuesday as well and we'll announce
the color from from tuesday as well so
a lot of stuff coming up tuesday a
little bit more time and as always if
you want to be fancy
if you want to be fancy
please
um
big clips the clips have been great
all right the the
i appreciate the gift itselves but not
not now please
it's this it's not it's not the reason i
share those things and so i appreciate
the love i appreciate your support but
but not right now yeah thank you
um
uh so
the
way you get the fancy color
right the way you get the fancy color
the the the yellow
right
the the the golden yellow is if you make
the best clip now the best clip right it
can be
it can be a fun clip or it can be an
educational clip we're picking both so
one person that got the golden color so
far picked out a funny one and then one
person that did an educational clip got
it as well so best clip get a fancy
golden color if you want to stand out on
discord that's your way
cool
i always share a slido after each class
for you to to
post this the eclipse in
yeah
tony i got you
alrighty now
on tuesday we picked it up
on tuesday it got a little spicy
things are starting to come due
and the the hard part right now is yes
the code but it's also the time
management
right it's it's the it's the stuff that
you have to do each week
the networking is becoming a thing
the coding challenges are becoming a
thing
the reading is getting a little bit more
intense and a little bit more is going
to be asked of you as we start to
progress through the boot camp
right and so you have the paid client as
well and so as the javascript gets a
little bit harder and as you have the
networking as you have the coding
challenges as you have the paid client
that all starts to
to to ramp up a little bit right it all
starts to get a little a little bit more
tough
and so i just want to make sure that we
say it that as it turns up it's okay
we understand that you're going to be
it takes a little while to get up to
speed remember it's a it's a marathon
not a sprint
right it's a marathon not a sprint
if you need to take a little bit more
time to get your networking up to speed
that's okay if you need to take a little
bit more time to to get the daily
challenges into your
into your into your your daily routine
that's okay if you need the
the the the the time to to focus on the
reading that's okay
at this point in our our adventure you
have to start figuring out how you're
gonna manage your days and what what you
need to invest more or less in that's
okay
and as we start to kind of keep going it
does get easier
it does the first couple of weeks is a
it's definitely a shock to the system to
know you have to be balancing all these
things but that's the beauty of a boot
camp
it's one shot in your life
that you
put in this effort and it can pay
dividends for the rest of your life
the time you put into the networking
will help you get a job the time you put
into your client will help you get a job
the time you put into the coding
challenges will help you get a job and
so
as things turn up just know that you're
not alone
just know that there's a huge community
here that wants to support you
and you're running you're we're all on
the same roller coaster we're all going
to get there together but don't be
afraid
to just hang on sometimes right
sometimes you just gotta hang on
you might not be enjoying the roller
coaster but you're on it right you're
just gonna be beyonce you're gonna hold
on and we're all gonna get there
together
i want to do a
live
uh portfolio and resume review and so
folks are starting to work on their
portfolios they're starting to we
haven't fully done our resumes yet but
people are starting to work on them and
so i want to do a class where we go
through a bunch of them live so if you
want the opportunity for me to do yours
live like share it live like i'm going
to roast you just a little bit like not
a lot just a little bit of roast right a
little bit of heat right so if you want
if you want your your portfolio and
resume for me to give you a critique
because what really happens is
the
the portfolios resumes i review the same
stuff comes up over and over again
it really everyone makes the same
mistakes out the gate and so i really
want to do this clash just so i can show
you the common mistakes that folks make
and how to correct them and how to make
your portfolio and your resumes past
that wonderful
sniff test right and so go ahead if you
know you want somebody to take a look at
it you might want to do it live fill out
that form for me and we'll do quite a
few of them together so that's a class
that'll be coming up not not super soon
but in the near future just as we get
closer to doing more resume and job prep
stuff
is there a deadline no i would say fill
it out like this week if you want the
chance i'm just going to pick a few
we're going to do like five to 10 of
them so if you you want to be in that in
that raffle to figure out who it is um
go going to fill out that form for me
all right
as we kind of move into
we have linkedin classes we will yeah we
will have classes on linkedin we'll have
classes on your resume all that
professional development stuff we have
like actual dedicated class time for
do we need to remove personal info i
would
i'm not going to like edit anything so
whatever you share with me i'm going to
share live so if you want to blank stuff
out or things like that definitely take
the time to do that
cool we're also going to do linkedin
reviews all that fun stuff but that's a
little bit later right now our goal is
kind of coding and networking and coding
challenges as we go a little bit further
along we'll switch gears and worry about
that professional development stuff
pretty heavily
all right
another thing you're going to start
noticing is that
in class things are going to be getting
a little bit harder a little bit more
spicy if you're not doing the reading
i'm going to assume
that if i give you a week to get reading
done that you've done it
now doesn't mean that we won't review
the important concepts doesn't mean that
we won't make things hopefully make a
little bit more sense but i'm going to
start giving videos and reading that i
expected to be done within that week so
that we can go a little bit faster
during class we're at the point where we
need to speed up just a little bit to
get to the end at the right time and so
we're going to kind of pick up the pace
a little bit and they're gonna be a lot
of things that you're gonna have to
research on your own
and there'll be some things that i'm
gonna ask you i'm gonna say hey we're
gonna be using these methods but i'm not
gonna give you the resources for the
methods or i'm gonna give you
hey we're going to be covering this
topic but i might not give you the
resource for that topic and the reason
i'm doing that is because i need you to
start getting comfortable with the idea
of being uncomfortable on the job
right
once you're on the job there often won't
be tutorials there often won't be
videos or even books or anything that
will help you with that stack and you
have to get good at researching things
on your own so know that there will
start to be a few gaps as we pick up the
pace a little bit that's intended for
you to fill in those gaps to do the
research to look things up even some of
the practice problems we'll be doing
during class i i feel a little bit like
a jerk when i have to say it but a lot
of some of them are going to be like hey
here's this thing we've never heard of
and in that moment you have to go to the
mdn or you have to look i just need you
to develop that muscle right so that
when you're on the job you don't panic
you've been used to it we've been doing
that for weeks months right so know that
that's coming the first couple times
i'll be really obvious with it i'll
really point it out but know that that's
where we got to pick up that pace a
little bit
yeah
all righty
welcome to the trough of sorrow
i feel like most of us are here uh let's
do a poll real quick i just want to i
just want to know
let me let me let me start a poll here
new
poll are you in the
trough
yes
or
no
all right we're going to do a one-minute
poll here
go ahead and say yes or no for me please
totally [__] is not a yes or no but i
see you
all right
we're at about
75 percent of folks are in the trough of
sorrow and about 25 of you are not
that's the right place that that to me
is like a good a good spot to be
and i think it's really important for
everyone to see that those results
right to see that result
beautiful
this is
over a thousand people took this poll
75 of you are in the trough of sorrow
and 25 of you are not
don't feel bad for being exactly
where you should be this is from blah me
and blah were talking wednesday and this
came up and i really thought it was so
important that we had to
that we had to share it uh in class so
this this is from blah you shouldn't
feel bad for being exactly where you
should be
you should be in the trough of sorrow by
now
we don't right
you you should be
in the muck
it you should be you should be in the
goo
you should be looking around being like
i don't know what the [__] leon is
talking about i don't understand he's
he's drawn all these arrows but i don't
know what those arrows mean i don't know
what that that arrow from that i like i
what i i'm here but i don't know what i
stands for
right like you should be in the trough
of sorrow
and you're gonna see that 25
feel like they're not
and it's really really difficult
really difficult for when you're in the
trough of sorrow where you should be
to see folks
that might not they're st they're like
you're you're you're at the bottom in
the muck and there are still some people
coming down the roller coaster and
they're having fun they're yelling
they're wooing they got their beyonce
hair flowing right they're they're doing
the they're doing the most
right you're in the muck but you're
seeing folks still coming down the hill
right they're gonna crash into the
trough too don't let their fun
don't let their fun
get you twisted right they're gonna
they're gonna crash into the trough of
sorrow too
you're there they're coming down behind
you don't don't get it twisted
because here's what happens
when we start doing daily coding
challenges
some folks do the most they can't help
themselves they're flexosauruses right
they they they they just they just have
to flex right they they they do a couple
code wars they're up in the hamilton
channel they can't help themselves it's
okay and this is you that's okay like
like don't don't let me don't let me
block your shine right but
we got a lot of flexosaurus about 25 of
us are flexosauruses right and so what
you have to realize is that if you're in
the trough
it it really sucks to look around and
see folks still wooing at the top of the
hill
right and so what i really need you to
understand
is that you shouldn't feel bad for being
exactly where you should be right if if
arrays aren't making sense that's okay
if javascript's not clicking that's okay
if the coding challenges look like
gibberish that that that's okay
if
you are
still catching up that's okay
uh you should be in the trough things
should be mucky you should be doubting
yourself that's where you should be
so don't let
the fluxosauruses coming down the hill
like it looks fun until they crash along
with you right and so be careful we've
assigned a lot of stuff that's going to
make you maybe not feel the best
and that's okay you're going to get
there to where you're going to start
rocking the coding challenges you're
going to get the client you're going to
do those things but keep pushing through
the trough of sorrow you're where you
should be and you shouldn't feel bad
about that
and for the flexors that's okay
shoot do your do you right just be
mindful that we're trying to do this as
a community right be mindful that folks
might
not be totally understanding the coding
challenges yet and so if you flex
also teach
let's try that you're gonna flex teach
as well right if you're if you're gonna
if you're gonna show off the the cool
thing you did on the code wars
help somebody else understand what you
just did
right it's okay to be a flexosaurus
just we gotta pull folks along with us
too
cool
all right thank you cool
let's talk about some programming folks
talk about some programming
we're going to get i'm a stockosaurus
that's all
right coding gal nah
nah
that's not a good one nope that's not
you
trophosaurus there we go we're all
trophosauruses
all trophosauruses we're all going to go
through the trough at some point
today you tomorrow me
it comes and goes
all right let's talk about some
programming folks
a computer will do what you tell it to
do
we know this through and through
computer will do what you tell it to do
a program is a set of instructions that
you write to tell a computer what to do
and programming is the task of writing
those instructions in a language that
the computer can understand the language
that we write that we understand that
the computer can eventually understand
which is broken down is javascript
javascript has a very specific syntax
and that syntax
is might be what's driving us through
the trough of sorrow recently right that
syntax is tricky once we start adding
arrays and the square brackets and
the the equals this and the substitution
that can get a little wild and so
tonight
we're going to practice that syntax more
we're going to get more hands-on
keyboard practice we're going to spend
more time with examples
so that that syntax isn't as scary
javascript syntax when we learn a new
topic
sometimes it's pretty scary
mushroom said leon trying to sneak masks
on us and i ain't trying to sneak mass
on you there's just there's just some
substitution a lot of a lot of
development a lot of programming is like
all right this equals that i'm not going
to say that's quick math but it's it's
just it's something it's something that
our brains have to click over to and
sometimes it takes a couple classes for
your brain to be able to click over to
be able to follow the substitution
pattern
yeah cool
so far we talked about variables our
data buckets and we talked about how we
can declare and assign variables so here
i've declared a variable called age and
i've assigned it the value of 25.
talked about conditionals is another
member of the big four
conditions if if something is true we do
what's inside the curly braces
if that if is not true we check the else
if if the else if is not true the else
automagically runs
yeah
roofiata said hold on i want to they
spent their their highlight message
customer told me to build an ecommerce
website for them i told them a price
that they brought up how someone who has
more experience is charging them less
for the sake of next time how would you
handle this
tell them to go like i i love that i
love when clients tell me that they have
somebody else that'll do it for less
money here's my favorite answer when
whenever a client says
oh why like i like
so-and-so is going to do it for cheaper
the thing i in different go says [__]
you pay me that's on the list but it's
not what i say i go oh really like i get
i i do
i do really
like
that that much cheaper can i have their
name and number please i got a lot of
projects there they're gonna do it for
that price i need their info can i have
their name and phone number please and
then i'm dead serious like can i have
their name and phone number
and uh because that that's so that's a
wild price and then no i'm serious can
you give me that name and phone number
thank you i really appreciate you i got
a backlog of projects i i could really
use their help
but
if they don't work out
you know you can come back to me but
good luck i can't compete with that
price have fun
you know why
because a week later they call me back
a week later they call me back it's
almost always capped they always call
back
and if they really do have someone
that's going to do it for that much
cheaper then let them do it let them
let them go and do it at that price
well i'm not gonna i'm not gonna i'm
like hey you do you
we don't get got we go get exactly spicy
leon is here
all right we have our conditionals we
check to see if the if is true if not we
check the else if we have as many else's
as we want and we can have an else if we
choose to we don't have to but if we do
it automatically runs beautiful
chat what's the danger between us
between assignment and comparison danger
between assignment comparison
if we're still catching up would you
recommend coming to a live class
i recommend catching up and then joining
live but
watch the
watch the super review and then maybe
check out a live class or two so yeah
come come watch a super review and then
join a live class live class is fun
yeah one equal sign versus three equal
signs
one equal sign you're
you're assigning a variable
two equal signs or three equal signs
you're doing comparison and we always
have to be careful of doing assignment
inside our parentheses because it'll be
what type of value what type of value
could it be
if we do assignment inside of the inside
the inside of the
the parentheses what do we wind up with
yeah
we can wind up with something that is
truthy
it'll it'll evaluate as truthy which is
pretty weird
so that's something to keep in mind if
you accidentally do the assignment
remember we can have multiple conditions
you can
check to see if your name is leon and if
your status is balling because if it is
get a link at the camera
beautiful
you can also do or
right you can check to see if the day is
saturday or the day is sunday because if
it is saturday or sunday then it is
still the weekend beautiful
functions chat what are functions
what functions are
we're powering through this review so we
can get to the arrays
sets of instructions exactly sets of
instructions
sets of instructions
marty katz thank you for the gifted subs
scam vr thank you for the gift that subs
i appreciate y'all for being here
thank you so much
alrighty
they are indeed sets of instructions
they're meant to be reusable right meant
to be reusable the idea we write
functions so we don't have to rewrite
the same logic over and over and over
again
we just do
a function and then we can reuse that
function we can call it over and over
again
cool
here we go we have a function the normal
syntax
chat
what is this
what did i just circle what do we call
it
i got you somebody they saw me
squiggling out they thought i was going
one way i i
i swear if i deeked them on a different
way yeah it's a function declaration
beautiful we're taking that set of
instructions and putting it into memory
how about this down here ah
how about that down there what what
what what is this down here
beautiful yes it's a function call we're
trying to make that function above run
function call
here is the basic syntax of a function
we have our function call when we call
mom we call to
exactly norm we call to argue so we pass
in hello which is our
argument
all right it's our argument our argument
falls into our
what is word chat what is word what's
the word
word word
yes
yes we're on fire tonight it's a
parameter exactly i feel good i hope you
all feel good yeah
the parameter beautiful
loops wider loops chat with her loops
what do they name us to do yeah they
enable us to do something over and over
again to do something
in a repeated manner to to repeat some
action again and again exactly cool
so
loops enable us to repeat an action some
number of time
we saw we know there are three main
types of loops in javascript for wild do
while we saw four and wild so far we
haven't seen to do well yet we'll see
that next week
and we also saw some other loops on
tuesday what was another kind of loop
that we saw on tuesday
yeah
four each exactly cool
and these different types of loops just
really kind of determine when and when
to start and stop your loops so here's
the traditional for loop we set up our
counter we say when to stop counting we
say how much we increment each loop
and we go ahead and we can console log
whatever that counter is each time so
this would print
one two three four
we would add one to four we're at five
is five less than five no
it's equal
it's not less than and so we would stop
and only see one through four print it
to the console
all right
we also have a while loop
we set up our counter outside of the
parentheses and we're going to say is 0
less than 5 that is true we'd wind up
printing 0 and then we would increment
inside of the loop uh if we forgot the
increment
we could run into some trouble
if we got our end condition wrong we
could run into some trouble running into
a what
yes
infinite loop
lipscope
exactly
wonderful
let's go ahead
and do some practice problems let's
let's uh let's see these big foreign
action the variables the conditionals
the functions and the loop so if you're
new around here you need the starter
code
greed sorry join our discord and agree
to the rules you'll see a follow along
materials channel in that channel will
be a zip file today unzip it and then
open that code in vs code and that's
what we're going to be working on
together so
today's code is all bachelor related but
it's always the spin-offs some of them
you might not have even heard of like in
paradise or after paradise winter games
summer games i don't know how long
you've been part of bachelor nation but
you're going to learn today all right
folks let's go ahead and take a look at
in paradise
you're also going to notice
that
there's a lot of other stuff here
and that the slides go for way longer
than we're going to cover we're just
covering arrays tonight we're seeing
more practice but these slides go into
objects and all the code i give you
comes with objects as well so
what do you think you should do
this weekend
or before
before tuesday
all right some of my
you don't have that whoa whoa i forgot
we got the flex asauruses in here the
flexor sources were like do it by friday
midnight right no no just just read
ahead read ahead a little bit look at
the examples i don't need you to do them
just just read ahead a little bit
familiarize yourself with the big topics
research anything that seems not in the
reading that we covered right just
i forgot some of you are like it'll be
done by tonight no i don't need you to
finish it tonight i just want you to
look ahead a little bit see what's
coming for tuesday and thursday see the
code we're going to work on tuesday and
thursday that way it's not your first
time we
forgot
we're good we're good all right let's
take a look at this we got some variable
practice some function practice some
conditional practice and a loop i'm
gonna put uh let's put four minutes on
the clock here and have at it
four minutes and then we'll go over it
together you got this
i believe in you
we'll go over it together and then we'll
probably take our break
this is
the review in paradise review in
paradise always in the slides you always
need the slides it's exclamation point
slides if you need them but reviewing
paradise is the one we're working on
yeah three minutes 30 seconds
what are some of us i always forget i
always mess it up
what's your favorite sandwich
i don't know if i have a
is a
oh no
i don't really eat sandwiches
is it glizzy a sandwich like a vegan one
that a sandwich
not sure
i grew up eating hoagies i really do
like hoagies but i don't really eat meat
or cheese anymore
put some music on for you while you're
working
what's your opinion on pineapple on
pizza you do you
juicy got automotive but i have heard of
them yes
tony luke's has vegan hoagies now what
that's wild
it's all about phil's on 24th street
though
i'm at four years now maybe a little bit
longer
but i haven't really eaten red meat or
pork since i was nine
it's phillips but i call it phil's
coffee mouse gaming added two minutes to
the timer folks when this hits a minute
we're gonna bump it to three
we'll bump this up to three as soon as
it hits one
coffee mouse out here
all right there we go three minutes on
the timer for the two minutes that we're
at it
strategic the vods are always
immediately available
and then everything gets uploaded to
youtube uh probably like a couple days
later a day or two later
do you take supplements uh i take like a
multi vitamin now but
and vitamin d but the vitamin d is more
for my bipolar disorder and not so much
like i'm missing it in my diet i just
need way more
d5a congrats on the offer that's huge
attack that's all right you just gotta
give yourself a little bit more time
hold an a with the done
pack have you done your repetition
that's what's really helped sink this in
hey nicolo that's pretty dope
a lot of folks done those extra two
minutes that came in clutch
congrats on the folks finishing
hey election game
just landed a small client for a little
javascript widget that's oh congrats
galaxy hope everything's okay
when does it usually start to get better
it depends on how on how much time you
have
not everyone has the same privilege of
time and so some folks are able to get a
little bit more repetition and it comes
a little bit earlier um the best thing
you can do is just ask a lot of
questions jump on discord
have someone help walk through things
with you
we have so many folks now that
help out on discord if you see folks in
a voice channel don't be afraid to say
hey i'm struggling with this thing can
you show me
we have so many folks that are kind of
starting to ramp up more streaming and
hopefully joining the stream team
mayan's been streaming a lot mine was
been streaming a lot which is pretty
helpful for a lot of folks so there's
always help to be had you just gotta you
gotta help eddie you gotta ask for it
uh there was a really beautiful
uh article i was reading last night
um
or the night before that was
talking about like tutoring
and why they're
why they're like less geniuses now
and how effective tutoring can be for
someone learning
and um it just reminded me of discord
and seeing so many folks giving up time
and energy to help others learn and
walking through stuff that gets stuck on
and so
please make sure you ask for help jump
into those voice channels don't be
afraid to
to ask for the help that you need
alrighty folks come on back come on back
let's go through this
got the last one dope hey
all right let's go through these
together
and then we will probably take our break
alrighty
declare a variable reassign it to your
favorite food alert the value so let's
go and say let fave
food equal
dominoes but i can't let this stay
dominoes we have to reassign it so i
don't get got i don't get in trouble so
we're going to say fave food is dominoes
then we have to reassign it to your
favorite food
all right so fave food
equals
i will say vegan pho
there we go vegan pho
oh man i there's this vegan ramen spot
near me
it's a problem it's a problem all right
declare your variable reassigned to your
favorite food alert the value so we're
going to head to alert favorite food
beautiful
declare variable
assign a string
alert the second
right
declare a variable assign it a string
alert the second character
in the string
uh oh
uh oh declare a variable assign it a
string alert the second character
all right so let's go ahead and do like
the the normal
the normal string that everyone starts
off with hello
twitch
beautiful hello twitch
and let's alert the second character in
the string how can we alert the second
character
there's a lot of things that we could do
here all right i see some folks just
saying
use square brackets let's try that real
quick
let's try that real quick so let's just
go ahead and say
alert
and we're going to alert
extra
and how would i get the second
not the first
yeah we put in one
let's see let's see if this works if we
see e we know it works so let's see if
this works
let's open in the browser
all right we got vegan for and then we
got e so we know it worked we see the e
that was alerted and that's tiny but the
e alert it so we know that it works
and
if we look
we can see that string
or strings in javascript also kind of
work like what
they also kind of work like what
arrays yeah we can we can kind of use
some similar syntax one of the the odd
things about javascript we'll eventually
see why this is next week next week
we'll see why these bracket notations
make sense we'll see why it works this
way but just know that like
everything might be something that it's
not
let's just put that out there everything
might be something that you don't know
yet
and eventually they can all kind of
wind their way together so we'll get
there there's also something else we
could have done we could have done maybe
a a method so i'm going to comment this
line out
this was kind of like one you could have
researched if if you used your google
foo or you went to the mdn um you might
have found a different way of doing it
with some other ways that we might have
done it extra
what was something else yeah char at
so char at is a method that's built into
javascript or specifically with strings
that enables us to get characters and so
if i say char out one i get the same
thing
and what we're going to notice is that
we're starting we we say 1 because we
start counting at 0. the h would be 0
and the e is 1. so it doesn't matter if
we're using the square bracket notation
or methods that we found in our research
we're gonna stick with that one so
arrays start to play out
or the understanding of zero indexing
plays out a lot in javascript even when
we're not dealing strictly with arrays
cool
functions
create a function that takes in three
numbers
divide the first two numbers and
multiply the last alert the product and
call the function so let's go ahead and
create the function
we're gonna call this um
divide
and
multi
and we're going to take in three numbers
so we're just going to say n1 and 2 and
3 as our parameters we could call them
whatever we want we could call them
robot unicorn chicken it just doesn't
matter
but we're just going to do n one and two
and three
divide the first numbers multiply the
last and alert the product so let's go
and say let prod
equal
and i'm going to use parentheses just so
that my i know the order of operations
here would probably be fine it's just
cleaner for me to read i'm going to do
n1 divided by n2
and then i'm going to multiply the last
so n3
and that would give us the product and
then we're going to alert that
so alert
rod
beautiful
we could have done it all in one line
right we could have taken this and put
it inside the alert that would have
worked too
same thing
yeah
why assign them and not alert straight
away
just readability
readability
eventually our functions might do more
returning than they do alerting
right so eventually this might be a
function that we call over and over
again and so instead of alerting it we
might be returning that product and
that'll make it a little bit easier to
read
okay and then call it
divide and multi and we can pass in some
numbers here let's do 12 3 and 4.
there we go
i'm going to go ahead and comment these
other ones out just so we can see things
are working or not
i'm going to comment both of these lines
out and then we should see
what should we expect chat what should
what should we see if this works
what should we see alerted if this works
all right we should see 16 right because
12 divided by 3 is 4 4 times 4 would be
16. so let's see if this works
and come back here i'm going to refresh
and boom 16. love it
this of course is the cast of the first
bachelors in paradise just in case you
were wondering who these uh wonderful
people are
leon said you said no math
well we're i'm not doing the math the
the computer's doing the math
why are they so small
because it's very hard to find photos of
a lot of the bachelor offshoots some of
the i'm glad you asked this this is a
very important conversation
so i said why are the images so small so
a lot of the earlier bachelor
like spin-offs or
the like side shows they weren't really
that like popularized and it wasn't like
a big thing on the internet yet so it's
actually relatively kind of hard to find
good photos of the entire cast or even
individual photos of the cast without
having to sit there and splice the
actual show even some of the shows and
the special episodes are hard to find
online and so hopefully one day we get
the full catalog but yes so some of the
images are small because it's just
really hard to find so did i spend a lot
of time trying to find these photos yes
did i spend too much time trying to find
these photos yes but i think it's worth
it
create a function that takes in one
number
console log the cube root of that number
and call the function
function
cube
cubit
or i should say cube root it
there we go cube root it
i'm taking a number
i'm going to call that robot
and then console log the cube root of
that number
let's go ahead and uh console.log
and how did you all get the cube root
yeah we're going to use that math object
that we talked about remember we talked
last class but there's like this
built-in math object that comes with all
these goodies and one of them is the
cbrt which is just the cube root so we
can take the cube root root of robot
beautiful
all right we could have also done
math.pal that i see some folks throwing
out something there
you could have also coded this out and
so the cool thing about the cube root
and one of the things i like about the
mdn
is
also i'm putting a lot of spaces in here
just to make it a little bit easier to
read i wouldn't normally have these
spaces i just kind of make things a
little bit easier to see for folks that
are new to using uh these methods
yeah so
if we were to console.log
oh sorry we already canceled we just got
to call it so cube root it let's pass in
like nine there we go let's save this
let's go to the browser let's uh
refresh
and let's open the inspector
and in the console
we can see the cube root of nine
that's weird
now
that's cube not cube root
[Laughter]
um
where's a lot of decimal places here
there's a lot of decimal places here how
could i
how could i
maybe not have all the decimal places
i don't want to round it i just want
like i just want like maybe to like the
fourth decimal place
yeah square root of exactly square root
of nine is three this is a cube root
it's different
sure i picked a better number than nine
yeah we have this idea of two fixed let
me show you
i can do this here two fixed
two
fixed and then i can pass in a number
let's pass in four
i'm gonna save this
let's change our number uh let's keep
nine let's keep nine um
i'm gonna do two fixed four
and let me refresh again
and now you can see we just have to the
fourth decimal place
right we have until the fourth and so
instead of having the longer chain we
have the ability to so there's a lot of
really cool stuff that's just built into
javascript right this math object that
has cool stuff like cube root uh this
method to fix which will help us remove
reduce the um number of decimal places
and so when i talked about this idea of
researching right starting to google
some things that are gonna there will be
some things that we just haven't covered
but are easily googleable right and so
getting used to using the mdn using the
mdn to find cube roots using the mdn to
find um
these little things they're going to
keep coming up in the challenges is what
i want you to get comfortable with
because on the job that's what you do
when when when you have to do the cube
root of something
you're not going to you're not probably
going to sit there and bang out the cube
root code you're probably just going to
figure out like oh does javascript have
a way of doing cube roots and then use
that
one of the things i really do love about
the mdn though is
mdn cube root
cube root
cool if we look at the mdn
this new layout like it keeps bob i i i
think it looks good i'm just not used to
it i don't like change uh the cool thing
i like about the cube root is it
actually shows you
like the code behind it
right
i actually like the co it shows you the
code behind it i should probably put on
dark mode sorry there we go it actually
shows you the code behind it and so if
you wanted to not use the built-in
code
you could like actually see how they
would write it out which is pretty
pretty dope uh so i really do like the
mdn when they show the the like the
actual stuff behind it and i'm just
really glad i don't have to know how to
do this
i can just use the cube root
yeah that's it
sorry for the the flashbang yeah we'll
use dark mode on on there it's it's
pretty though
yeah
a polyfill means that maybe sometimes
there might be a browser that doesn't
give you access to this cube root and
how would you like write code to get
around it and so it shows you the code
that you could use so it's just kind of
like what could you use to fill it in
like what could you what code could you
use to get around not having that object
built in
is it better to put console log and
alert in the function then like that
rather than using return and doing
console.log later uh it's not really
it's just it's just a demonstration
i i don't really use these like console
logs or alerts that much in my actual
coding it's just so that we can visually
see what's happening
i would probably be using return mainly
in a lot of my actual codes so don't you
don't have to get kind of worried about
like using console console.logs or
alerts just so that we can see what's
actually happening a little bit easier
yeah
conditionals
create a function that takes in a month
and if it's a summer month alert yay if
another month alert boo so what are we
going to use what are we going to use
here
what what are the big four we're going
to use here
function
check
for
summer
yeah we can just use some sort of
conditional
we know we're going to take in a month
so let's call our parameter month
let's have an if
and we're probably going to have
an else
cool so we can say if
month equals
what's the first
what's the first june right if month
equals june what's wrong here
what are some things i want to get into
trouble with
here yeah warning warning will robertson
exactly uh this is assignment this is
not comparison i'd be reassigning month
to june no matter what it'll be true so
that's our comparison
we could also say
or
there we go or month
equal
july i'm really struggling with these
most july
or
month
equal
august
oh
yes there you go august beautiful
uh and then there's some other things we
might run into right
i might run into something else
what i consider a switch case yeah i
could but we haven't really covered
those together yet
yeah what if what if somebody does it
capitalize we gotta make sure that month
is lower case so let's go ahead
and say um i actually want to create
like a different variable for it just to
make a little bit readable
let's say let
month
lower
case
equals
month
dot 2
lower
case beautiful and instead of this being
month this will be month
lower case
month
lower
case
month
lower case beautiful
could you make an array of summer months
in winter months you could yeah that
could be something you could do
and then there are some methods that are
built into a raised like includes where
you could just see if it like you could
just take the month and see if it's
included in your array
we'll get there folks we'll get there
we're not there yet but we'll get there
and that's something you'll see a lot in
your coding challenges yeah
there's there's methods built in with
arrays that enable us to like not have
to do the conditional logic
smart
don't break my brain yeah we're not
there we're not going to get there yet
uh so this is supposed to be an alert of
ea
and this should be an alert of boo
i might be at the point where i would
maybe also have an else if for all the
other months right if i was if i was to
really do this i would have my if or my
summer months i would have an elsif for
all the other months because it says if
another month alert boo and then i would
have an else that says like not a month
right so i would have an if for the
summer months and else if for all the
other months and then an else that would
like an l saying like not a month so
slight semantics here if we had a little
bit more time that's what i would do
yeah
yeah we only gave us four minutes to do
this yeah exactly so a little bit more
time that's what i would do
loops
create a function that takes in a number
console log every number from one to
that number while skipping multiples of
five all right so we want to print from
one to a number but if it's the number
if it's a multiple of five we don't
print that number we just we just we
just skip over it we'll do this and then
we'll take our break
cool
so let's create our function here
i'm going to call this skip five
or skip
fives beautiful we're gonna take in some
sort of number
it's gonna call it n
and
we know that we're gonna if we're gonna
if we're gonna go from one to some
number what do we need
we're gonna go from one to some number
what do we need
a loop exactly so let's go and just do a
for loop for now
we've seen that syntax the most let i
equal and since we're starting at one
we'll set it at one while i is is less
than or equal to n right one to that
number uh so while less than or equal to
that number and then i plus plus
and then
what we want to do
is we want to check
is the number divisible by 5 well is the
number not divisible by 5 well
we can say is the number divisible by
five
right
no
let's say not divisible by five so we
can say i
mod five
does not
is this what is it hold on console log
every number one to that number while
skipping multiples of five
so as long as it doesn't equal
what as long as
i mod five does not equal zero
right then we console log that number
beautiful there we go
right so what we're saying here is hey
take whatever the number is divided by
five as long as it is not zero
then print that number to the console
because let's say this works so one mod
five would work two mod five three mod
five four minute five five mod five
would give us zero so since zero is not
equal to zero we wouldn't this wouldn't
be true we wouldn't print it to the
console so the idea here is that
this will always be true and we'll
always print the numbers to the console
unless
the number we're currently at is
divisible by five
and this is using the not there's maybe
some slightly other ways to do it too uh
there like the this like this like not
logic is something that some programmers
try to stay away from but i like i like
to think about it this way for now we'll
see some other stuff when we get to our
coding challenges later on
i misread it i thought we were going
from one to that number by counting by
five that's what my brain went to
immediately as well i thought i had to
jump by five that's why i had to reread
it
beautiful all right so we'll go from one
to the number
as long as that number is not divisible
by five which would make it a multiple
of five we print the number to the
console
if it's false we just don't do anything
we just move on to the next number
all right
let's go ahead and save this and let's
go ahead and take our break
when we come back we're we're at the top
of the hour so at the top of the hour we
always like to make sure we stay healthy
if you're new around here we get up we
if we're able to we move around we
hydrate uh we we let our eyes focus on
something that's not the screen and when
we come back a raise baby we're going
back through it we're gonna have some
more fun different examples more
practice more hands on keyboard let's
make a raise make sense five minutes on
the clock
beautiful
all right see you all in five
me
yo
thank you for the hype train
linux is sure to use i use a bunch of
them
mainly a debian user
sombore shuffle yes
please haven't yet mango
alright folks come on back come on back
let's get into some arrays
what up daddy yankee
throw those doritos in chat hey i see
all righty come on back
leon how do we decide what rates to
charge you don't you figure out what
their budget is and then you ask
yourself what can i get done
at that price point
that's it
i love a raise me too blah i think
arrays are like
i i try to explain this when i talk to
like other folks about
learning the code arrays are like one of
the first really big stumbling blocks
for a lot of folks it's like the first
time
that things kind of get i i think
reasonably overwhelming right it's just
something i see across all my students
so there's a reason why we did it on
tuesday we pushed you to the point where
it was hurting a little bit and there's
a reason why we're going all over it
again today with different examples
right so the arrays i understand like i
know it like i know that for some folks
arrays take a few classes to click and
then for some folks it's the the object
to take a few classes to click that's
okay we're going to review it right now
and we're going to review it on sunday
so even if even if today's not enough
that's all right come back on sunday
we're going to do it again we're going
to do a normal kind of office hours
where i answer questions we're going to
do a lot of practice with arrays too
and spark's number two late never too
late
and then the cool thing is once you find
something that's difficult yeah somebody
was saying uh diablo said this right
once you find something that is
difficult the cool thing about being in
the flow with code wars is that you can
search for specific problems don't do it
yet do level eight fundamentals track
but eventually you could just do array
problems and so we'll eventually have
weeks where we just do a raise we'll
have weeks where we just do loops we'll
have weeks where we just do
objects right and so the uh
that idea of using code wars not only is
like an interview prep tool but as a
learning mechanism is huge a lot of
folks say hey like how do i where can i
practice my code well that's what
codewords is for do level eights and
search for array problems do level
eights and search for the specific thing
that you have trouble with
yeah
and if you're on code wars the clan is
and it's case sensitive
octothorpe 100 devs hyphen leonwell.com
twitch that is the full clan name uh
it's funny seeing like all these other
small ones because people didn't type it
right or plugged in the wrong thing but
if you want to be in the official
100 devs clan it's the octothorpe 100
devs high finley on the well dot com
slash she could do exclamation point
clan
here in chat uh
eventually we'll have some cool prizes
and some ways to get some some cloudy
stuff here in chat so
uh last cohort we did
the person with the most growth
um from one month to the next they got
vip
so we're gonna do some fun things like
that we'll pick some random folks that
are participating in the clan we'll pick
some
folks that did the most we'll do folks
that are the highest ranked and we'll
give out not only like special colors on
discord but vip here on
uh twitch so if you want to make sure
you're in the official clan because
there's there's perks folks there's
perks
alrighty
a raise what the heck are arrays
what the heck are arrays i love perks me
too
warmth they're toasters exactly i'm glad
we all get that next
yeah so i like to think of a raise like
i think of toasters
one thing
that can hold multiple other things and
we talked about my what i thought was a
good toaster we talked about 50 cents
toaster and then we talked about bill
gates toaster right and bill gates
toaster
whenever you fill up all the slots a new
slot automatically appears
and so that's kind of what our arrays
are they are one element that is a
collection of other things and so if we
kind of break that down a little bit
further
an array is technically a data structure
it's a way of storing an ordered
collection
when i say ordered collection what do i
mean
what do i mean by ordered collection
yeah it comes with indexes it starts at
zero that's the beautiful thing
each slot of our toaster has elements in
it but those elements those slots we
start counting those slots at zero right
and the beautiful thing about arrays is
there are a lot of methods that are
built into javascript a lot of functions
that come with javascript that make
working with arrays really fun enables
us to do some really powerful stuff we
saw how powerful for each could be but
there are so many other methods that
we're going to start seeing today
map eventually in a couple weeks we'll
see reduce and filter includes all these
wonderful things that come with arrays
that make our lives a lot easier but
we'll get there in good time
there are two ways to create a raise
there are the constructor way which
we'll get to next week with objects
and then there is the
literal notation
right
yeah the the clan the the clan link is
not a link that's the the actual thing
you throw into your clan um on code war
so it's not a link to it it's it's the
thing you plug in yeah
so there's the object way
and there is the literal notation way
and so literal notation is just using
the square brackets
right
beautiful
when you declare an array you can
populate it with elements so here i have
three elements in the array as i as i
assign it a value and what you'll notice
is that arrays can hold any of the other
data types we've talked about so far
they can they can hold strings booleans
numbers heck they can even hold other
arrays bill gates toaster guess what he
got a second toaster and put a toaster
in his toaster
sometimes you just you're just not doing
life right you know
they got a toaster in the toaster
one day one day
so we got a zebra
we got a boolean we got a number and if
we're at bill gates house we got a
toaster inside of our toaster
now the tricky part the tricky part is
that we start counting the slots
on our toaster at zero our arrays are
zero index so if i want
the first element out of the array what
is its index
the first element what's its index
beautiful
what is at what what city is that the
second index
it was zero that was correct
yes sydney is at the second index
zero one two sydney is at the second
index what is that the fourth index
undefined exactly there's no there's no
fourth index that's undefined it doesn't
exist beautiful
alrighty
now this is where i think a lot of folks
kind of got tripped up
not only can we
put stuff into a raise we can get stuff
out of an array and when you see this
notation here
this is grabbing the value
out of the array so we're using the
array name
and the square brackets along with its
index when you do that you are pulling
the value out of the array so here
i have gone ahead and pulled out
zebra
since zebra is new array
at index zero this is the index zero so
i have pulled out zebra and since this
is inside of a console log we would see
zebra print it to the console
right just like if we had a toaster
here's our toaster
this is a three slot toaster i don't
know why there would be a three slot
toaster but there could be
and
here's our zeroth index our first index
and our second index
and
inside
inside of the first slot
we got
a pizza bagel
inside the sorry the zeroth index we got
in the first index
we got a piece of bread
and in the second index
we got a toaster strudel
right
you can tell the difference between a
piece of bread and toasted strudel right
there we go
so
if
didn't know leon was an attack on titan
anime internet that's funny uh so here
if i want it and this i'm gonna call
this
toasty
this this toaster is called toasty
so if i want it toasty
square brackets
what this is going to give me is it's
going to grab the toaster strudel for me
this is the same thing as grabbing that
toaster strudel i'm saying go to the
zero one two the second index and grab
that toaster strudel this is the same
thing as grabbing that toaster strudel
right
if i want toasty
square brackets zero that's the same
thing in
as coming in and grabbing that pizza
bagel i might as well just erase this
and put in pizza bagel
right and then if i want
toasty
square brackets one that's the same
thing as going in and grabbing this
boring piece of bread
and it's i can just get rid of this and
it would just be
a piece of bread
beautiful
now
here i'm doing the same thing
i'm grabbing the zeroth index out of
this array which is the same thing as
plopping in zebra and that's why i would
seek log to the console zebra
then here i'm going and grabbing
the thing in the first index
but is there anything in that first
index chat
is there anything in that first index
no
so we get undefined print it to the
console remember we're still inside of a
console log we get undefined printed to
the console then we try and grab the
thing out of
we try to grab the thing out of the
second index which is a boolean of true
so it's as though true
as though true was right here right and
then the last one we're grabbing the
thing out of the third index and that's
going and grabbing 21 21 21 21 21 and so
that's as though this got crossed out
and there was just 21
and we would see 21 printed to the
console so when you see this notation it
enables you to pull stuff out of the
array
now where a lot of people get tripped up
they maybe realize oh that's just
pulling something out of the race just
like using a variable right we can pull
stuff out of the array where folks get
tripped up
is that we can also put stuff into the
array using that notation it's the same
thing as reassigning a variable so what
we're saying is hey
find that array
go to this index and put this inside of
it
put that inside the first index
so let's actually type this out because
i think this this this tripped up some
folks last class i want to spend a
little time on it
all right
so let's go and create an array let's
call this let's call this um
let cool
cars
equal and then we're gonna set up some
[Laughter]
the wrong key over and over again
all right we got our square brackets
and let's do some cool cars what are
some cool cars
lightning mcqueen yeah there we go
all right we we got
a 1998
honda
accord beautiful what's another cool car
here
oh
toyota
yaris
definitely a cool car
and a race car bed that's awesome
race car
bed beautiful so now if we ask for cool
cars
we can see we get this array back of
1998 honda accord a 2017 toyota yaris
and a race car bed
if i
wanted to actually replace
the thing that's not a car right the
race car bed is a cool car but it's not
a real car so what i want to do
is i want to reassign race car bed to be
a cool car
so i'm going to do cool cars
and i'm going to use what index what
index would enable me to reassign
racecar bed
yeah i'm going to use that second index
and we are going to change it equal to
nissan
gtr
midnight
black
edition
psych
hyundai i'm not about hyundai that's
embarrassing 2015
kia
ultima there we go
beautiful
hit enter
and now when we ask for cool cars back
you can see that we get
1998 honda accord
we get a 2017 toyota yaris and we get a
2015 kia ultima
oh the engagement's too easy the
engagement's too easy
this is a good one
but here the point is
is not only can we use to get stuff out
of the
to get stuff out of the array
we can use it to put stuff into the
array
right we can we can we can put stuff
into the array and so here i just use
that notation and i set it equal to 2015
kia ultimate and you can see
it changed from race car bed to 2015 kia
ultima
beautiful
alrighty
let's keep pushing here
we also saw something really interesting
right we saw something interesting
and that was
that was
that when we have an array
we can actually overwrite a whole array
by reassigning one array to another and
so here i have an array of cars honda
toyota4 tesla and then here i have an
array of numbers one two and three if i
set cars equal to nums well now cars is
holding that one two three array and
when i console lot cars i get one two
three right you can overwrite whole
arrays by assigning an array to a
different array so the idea here is that
you can not only reassign individual
values but you can reassign the whole
array if you want to
what if they're different length it just
doesn't matter it overrides the whole
thing
yeah speaking of length if you ever want
to know how many elements you have in
your array you can do dot length and
when you do dot length it gives you the
total value sorry the total number of
elements in that array so this is really
helpful to figure out how many things
are in your array and get that value out
alrighty let's go ahead and get some
practice and we've reviewed the the
basics let's get let's get our fingers
on the keyboard here a little bit i want
you to open up in paradise after
paradise so
we have this uh after paradise is of
course like the the the after show
behind it so we have this lovely
review in paradise after paradise i'm
gonna open up this html
and this javascript and if we look it's
just one thing
create a function that takes in an array
if the first number is less than the
last number
alert hi
if the first number is greater than the
last number alert by if they are equal
alert we close in an hour so this is
going to require you to be able to pull
stuff out of the array using its index
to do a comparison in your conditional
so
let's go ahead and put
let's do four minutes on this one four
minutes on this one
and then we'll go over it together
i agree with blah you all can do this
dig deep think it through
think about how you can grab stuff out
think about how you set up your
conditional look at the previous slides
look at our conditional slides if you
need to
five minutes three four minutes on the
clock about it we'll go over it together
oozie said blah has too much faith in me
no they have just the right amount of
faith in you
some dunzos that's okay
[Music]
on adamawan is back hey how you doing
i do crispy nugget but that one required
um me to put like different stuff like
um different licenses on the youtube
videos i just didn't feel like it just i
just never remembered to do it and
um just got rid of it because of that
stream beats is much easier you don't
have to put a license on the video
minutes left
oh yeah i do i like indian food a lot
tiger give us a little bit more time to
go through the the forms
leon why do we start earlier than before
because in the us we have daylight
savings time which means that our clocks
change twice a year
and so the time may be different because
we have daylight savings time in the u.s
[Music]
oh that's right yeah arizona does it
differently right
done for the first time hey congrats
soon
don't worry if this one got you we're
gonna go over it together
uh we used to we we took in a cat for a
while that was named burani
it's funny that's your favorite favorite
yeah we had a cat named that for a while
all right folks 30 seconds left
will the cat dog can make a return yeah
it will eventually
i have not yet although some folks have
been organizing their own in the
location channels
malaysian dish too that's cool i didn't
know that
all right folks come on back come on
back
is a switch better than if else no i
mean they just have times that you might
use one over another or a preference
when i say it's better or worse
unless you're talking about like
like really nitpicking like
time complexity and stuff like that but
even then that's what i think i would
really worry about
all right folks come on back let's go
through this together
alrighty
create a function that takes in an array
if the first number is less than the
last number alert high
if the first number is greater than the
last number alert by
if they are equal alert we close in an
hour so before we get into
uh
before we get into
like the the function or the conditional
there's two key things we need to know
how to do
we need to be able to get the first
value out and we need to be able to get
the last value out of the array
so let's
let's pretend we had an array
that was uh 10 20 30 40
and 50.
and we're going to call this array
let nums equal there we go so we have an
array of nums equal how could i get the
first value out of this array
step one plug in your toaster
yeah i could do nums
zero that would give me the first value
and so that would be
ten
and if i wanted to get the last value
out of the array what could i do
last value out of the array
i could do this right i could do
zero one two three four
and i could use the fourth index and
that would give me 50 right
but
that wouldn't work if i kept adding new
numbers like if i added like another
number here like 60 this would be that
four would be hard coded and it wouldn't
give me the last number it would always
give me the 50.
i need some way of grabbing the last
number no matter how long it is and so
the thing we learned last class was
nums dot length
minus 1.
so if we actually break this down
nums.length in this case would give us
one two three four five
six elements remember numbers.length
would give us six because there's six
elements in the array so that's the same
as plugging in six there
and then i have to subtract by one y
i have to subtract by one y
is there a sixth index here
yeah it starts counting at zero
so zero
one two
three
four
five if i actually went to the sixth
index
it's it's over here right it's it's over
on this side there's nothing there
at the sixth index so i always have to
subtract by
one and that would give me five and that
would wind up pulling out 60.
right so we have to do
the length minus one
right
length minus one so that we can get the
last element in the array remember
length gives you the total number of
elements but we use the index to pull
stuff out of the array
you have to find the correct index so
now with that knowledge
let's go ahead and create this function
function
check
first and last
and we know we're going to take in an
array
i'm just going to call it our we call
whatever we want we could call it uh
duck
unicorn it doesn't matter but it's an
eraser we're going to call it r for
array
and
we need to check if the first is less
than the last we're just going to do a
nice conditional here a nice conditional
here
and let's go ahead and grab the first
number that first number is always going
to be
square bracket zero that one's easy we
can always grab the first one
a lot of folks are saying what about
like the methods like pop and stuff like
that we're gonna get there later today
later today we'll see pop and we'll be
able to use that going forward if we
want it
all right but that would also we get
into like array mutation but we'll talk
about that later
all right array zero
would give us the first and we want to
check to see if it's less than the last
so we'll do array
equals
array.length
minus one beautiful
so what we're going to say is if the
first number in the array
is less than the last number in the
array what do we do
we alert
hi
cool and then we're going to have an
else if
and we're going to say in the else if
and the else if we're going to say
if the
first number is greater than the last
number so we can kind of just repeat
this
again grabbing that first number with
the zero index greater than the last
same same trick again array.length minus
one we just switch the the the arrow
here to be greater than and if that was
true we will alert
by
and then if it was not less than or
greater than the only leftover result
would be what chat it wasn't less than
or greater than the only leftover result
would be what
yeah the only thing would be left would
it would be for it to be equal
so we can just do an else
we want to check anything we know that
would have to be equal and so we can
just alert
we close
in an hour
beautiful
how are we feeling about that one
pretty close you got pretty close that's
good
pretty good hot all right
cool
all right let's keep pushing folks
nailed it like to hear it
still a little struggle that's all right
we'll keep pushing
all righty the the thing where we kind
of got a little fast and loose last
class is when we started to try and
iterate through our array so we tried to
like move through the array
and so this is where it can kind of get
a little a little wild especially when
we introduce things like four each
and so a lot of times when we have
arrays
we're going to want to
be able to pull stuff out of the array
one after another
all right you gotta to pull one out
after another and so
the wonderful you got ads how did you
get ads
we ran three minutes
less than an hour ago that really annoys
me i'm sorry you all get ads sometimes i
i wish there was a way for me to
to
turn them off entirely
i would pay twitch money i wish i could
pay twitch money to not run ads
like whatever they're making out the ads
like like i know it can't be that much
he's a host
cool all right i'm just giving folks a
second because the ads really get my
goat
alrighty
yeah i mean we run ads so folks don't
get the midstream and no pre-rolls but
it still happens it's weird
already
we want to be able to move through our
array so i want to be able to grab each
element out of the array and so here is
a loop that's going to enable me to do
that
and so
here i have a normal for loop that we've
been setting up we have our counter
called i
we're going to run until we we're going
to run once for each element in the
array and the reason i know i'm going to
run once for each element in the array
is because i'm going up to the length of
the array this is the same thing
as if i had said
four
because there are four elements in this
array so this loop will run
four times because we're starting off at
zero
if we started off at one how many times
would this loop run like if we started
this off at one how many times would
this loop run yeah it would run three
times and not four
but since we're starting at
zero and we're going up into the length
that'll run four times for us beautiful
all right now the very first time
this loop runs what is i
the very first time this loop runs what
is i
i is zero exactly i is zero so if we ask
for best colors
zero
that gives us
green
so it's as though we plugged in green
into this console log and we print out
green to the console
then the counter goes up by one
and now when this runs we're doing best
colors
one
and that's the same thing as going to
the
first index
and grabbing blue
which is though we put blue in here and
we wind up console logging
blue
the next time this runs i has gone up by
one and we're at two
so we're gonna find best colors
zero
one
two
we're going to grab yellow and those we
plugged in yellow right here and so we
wind up console logging
yellow
then the count goes up by one
and so
we're plugging in
three
and so it's as though we did zero
one
two
and three
grabs black
we plug black in and it's as though we
had plugged in
the
string of black and that gets logged to
the console
then
we add one to i
and we're at four
is four
less than
four
no
it's not less than four
and so since it's not less than four we
stop and we're done
we're done
printing things to the console
beautiful
what would you use array iterations for
let's say i wanted to
see everyone that showed up today
right let's say
a month from now
you say hey leon
can you take a look at my code
i want to see if you were in class so i
could check the attendance by looking at
the tweet
and that tweet has all the folks that
like the tweet so i can throw all the
folks that liked the tweet into an array
and then i could loop through that array
and see who was there
right i can maybe print all the names
into into a list for me to easily see
who was here or not
exclamation point check-in
so the idea is that arrays are really
helpful for keeping track of a lot of
stuff we could use them for attendance
we could use them to add in certain
things as we come across them which is a
way of keeping track of a lot of
elements at one time
alrighty
we also have this
other method right this other method
that came up with arrays called for each
and what for each does is it's the exact
same thing as a for loop
right it's the exact same thing as a for
loop
it just does a few things
every single time it runs so the beauty
of four each oh
blog got a good hydrate hold on blah
blah when blah does the hydration all
right we're gonna this is the water
we're gonna finish it
there we go
cheers to you blah thank you for the
hydration
that's some only fan stuff right there
hey only a million channel points that's
all i got to say
alrighty so
four each
all right
is the same thing
as our for loop
right as our for loop same thing
for each is going to run once
for each element in our array so how
many times will four each run
on the best colors array
how many times will four each run on the
best colors array
four times because there's four elements
in the array the length of the best
color arrays is four
so four each is going to run each time
now
here's the really important question
each time four each runs
what does the 4-h goblin grab
every single time for each runs we know
it's gonna run four times but what does
the for each goblin grab
every single time it runs
yes
the 4-h goblin's gonna grab the element
the index
and it's going to take note what array
it just stole stuff
from is going to grab the element
the index and it's going to take a note
oh i stole that from the best colors
array and so the cool thing is each time
for each runs
this goblin
can go and grab that stuff
and the goblin is going to pass that
stuff
into this function here
every single time 4-h runs the goblin
runs and grabs the element the goblin
runs and grabs the index and it writes
down oh i got it from the best colors
array
and so every single time that goblin
runs it's going to pass in the element
it's going to pass in the index and it's
going to even pass in the array that it
came from
so right now
what bucket
what's the bucket the goblin is using to
hold the element
right now looking at this code what is
the bucket that the goblin is throwing
the element into
yeah
the goblin is throwing the element into
the bucket of x
and what's the bucket
that the goblin is using to throw the
index into
yeah it's going to throw it into i
so here we have this idea that we're
throwing
the goblin is throwing the element into
the bucket of x and the goblin is
throwing the index into the bucket of i
and then it's also
the goblin is also trying to throw the
array
into this function
but is there a bucket for it
no so so the so the the the goblin
is like throwing up the shot but it's
just it's just an air ball every time so
the first shot the the element falls in
the x
the second shot the the index falls into
i but then it tries to throw the array
into the function and each time
each time it just poofs it disappears
right there's no bucket for it
cool
so if we were to let this run
the very first time this 4-h runs the
goblin's gonna grab green
and zero so it's gonna throw green into
x
and 0
into i
and we're going to see print it to the
console
what what's going to get printed to the
console the very first time
green green
does anything happen with the index
no
nothing happens with the index because
we're not using it inside the function
we're only using the element all right
the next time 4h runs the code goblin
grabs blue
and one
it passes blue into x
and one into i
we see that we're going to print
blue
to the console so we see blue get
printed to the console
the next time the code goblin goes and
grabs
yellow and two so we pass in
yellow into x and two into i
and we wind up printing yellow
to the console
then the last time the goblin runs
it runs around and it grabs black and
three
so it passes black into x
and it passes three into i
and we wind up printing to the console
black
then we're done the goblin's tired
it's done a bunch of running there's no
more elements in the array so the four
each stops and the goblin is out of
business
important mango said leon can we take a
break so i can eat my chinese food
absolutely let's take a break so
important mango can eat their chinese
food when we come back we're gonna
practice
using our loops with arrays so let's put
five minutes on the clock if you're new
around here would like to be healthy
please if you're able get up move around
hydrate
take care of yourself folks this is a
marathon not a sprint and we'll be back
in five minutes
walk your goldfishes if you have to
beautiful
all right see you in five folks gonna
run some ads
do
so
here
i like mango better yeah it's a good one
uh
collective nectar it's actually the full
thing
like it's the and it's capitalized it's
the hyphen it's the link to twitch it's
the whole thing
smurfs versus glock goblins who's
winning
i don't know
i think like how many smurfs are there
there's probably way more goblins than
smurfs right
and goblins are like way bigger
maybe that's part of the smurf's power
is that you can't find them
exactly what's a goon to a goblin though
nothing nothing all right folks come on
back let's do this together
we got some work to do
we have the summer games let's go ahead
and take a look at that together
i'm going to go ahead and close this one
and this one and we're going to open up
summer games
one of my i don't want to say it's one
of my favorites but it was a really good
run summer games winter games i wish
they could bring them back a little bit
more challenge s for folks that are kind
of more real worldy fans
yeah all right create a function that
takes an array of numbers
multiply each number together and alert
the product
create a function that takes an array of
numbers
multiplying each number together and
alert the product so we're going to need
to somehow iterate through the array
grabbing each number and multiplying
them together
let's put a a solid uh
install a 5 dub on this one
and let folks see if they can get it
going
this was a code wars question yeah i
believe this is probably definitely a
code worst question uh so go ahead take
five minutes see if you can get this
working
take your time create the function if
you don't know how to do any if you
don't know how to do all the pieces try
different pieces try creating the
function try creating a function that
takes in an array try looping through
that array look at the past slides look
at the four each look at the for loop in
the slides to see if you can piece
together how to do it
and then we'll go over it together
got this folks
there's a problem with the review in
paradise one
let's see
hmm that looks good we can test it
though i think that looks good though
uh
luanne the uh hi on the the
the link is in the slides at the
beginning of the slides for today
look at all these dunzos that's wild
bye next week biohazards
the review in paradise let's let's run
it let's make sure that it works
this one here
while folks are working i'll test it see
if it's
doing its thing
yeah it worked one two three four skip
five
skip ten and skip fifteen definitely
worked
oh yeah we didn't run it so it was good
to test it to make sure
we are on the review summer games
project
company points to be in secret chat what
secret chat
what is your favorite flavor chip
um
sour cream and onion hers which i
haven't had since
being vegan
you take the you take the the sour cream
onion hers chips
you crunch them all
you crumble the bag
get them all nice and tiny then just go
to town
30 seconds folks
have i caught up on snow piercer no not
yet i'm kind of like a i like to i like
to just binge it i'm gonna wait until
the this the show's done and then i'm
just gonna watch them all
you have any advice for so anyone
struggling with burnout take your time
the marathon not a sprint if you need to
take a week off and come back do it
we'll be here catch up crew will be here
everyone has their uh their own their
own race to run but
we're all on the same roller coaster
we'll all eventually get there
excuse me
all right let's come back and take a
look at this together
so what we're going to do for this one
is create a function that takes in an
array of numbers multiply the numbers
together and alert the product so let's
create our function
let's call this multi
nums in array
and we know we're taking in an array
and we know eventually we're going to
alert a product so i'm gonna say let
product
equal one
why don't i set product equal to zero
i i'll be honest i did that first
when i was creating this i did it by
zero first because it would just always
be zero so we got to start with one or
else would we always wind up with zero
um i i yeah that's how i started this
one
all right now we're gonna loop through
our array
we can do two different kinds of loops
we could do a for each loop uh or we
could do a regular for loop since we
solve for each most recently let's do a
four each together so i'm gonna say
array dot and then we'll do four each
right so that's the that's the actual
for each itself
and then we can put in
an arrow function into this 4-h that'll
run
once for each time that the 4-h runs and
so i know that i'm going to pull a
number out of the array
and so i'm going to use that number
and what i'm going to do is i am going
to
times the product
by
that number
right i'm just going to times the
product by that number so the idea is
that the goblin is grabbing each number
out of the array
right it's grabbing each number out of
the array and then timesing it by the
product
cool let's see if this works
and then we have to alert it right
let's see and we're going to call it
let's call multi-num
and let's turn in an array that has
uh one two and and three
one two and three
actually let's do
ten
two
and one all right let's do ten two and
three ten two and three i don't like
starting off with one because sometimes
that confuses people so we'll do 10 2
and 3. so this was the work we would
have 10 times 2 which is 20 and 20 times
20 times 3 which should give us 60. so
let's see if this works
let's save it we have to open this in
the browser
beautiful we got that alert of 60 so we
know that it works
and so
if we go back and look
wrong one if we go back and look let's
talk through what's happening here
so
i like setting up my variables because i
think it it's easier to see
and so here i have
my function that's taking in an array so
we know this whole array here
is being passed in
wherever i see r
it's actually the 10 2
3 array
cool i set up my product at one because
i know i'm going to be multiplying
everything right and i see everything
into that product right
and then i have my four each
and so that for each right is using this
array
so how many times is the for each goblin
going to have to run around
how many times is the 4-h goblin gonna
have to run and grab stuff out of the
array
yeah that goblin's gonna have to run and
grab it three times i talked about this
today too in america we do this this
doesn't make sense
this is hard to do it hurts and then
some people like do this that that that
hurts even more we can just do that
why why don't we do this
that's three it's so easy
that's three
it's so weird that we don't do that in
the states it blows my mind the first
time somebody showed that to me i was
like what
we have the 10 2 and 3 is our is our
array and so we said the 4-h goblin is
going to run three times
right going to run three times
i did it was a german thing that's
interesting
all right
ten two and three is our array so the
goblin's gonna run three times the very
first time the goblin runs
it's going to run
and grab
and 0.
the only bucket i have
is num
so the only thing that's actually going
into this for each is going to be the
what
the only thing that's gonna actually the
goblins gonna actually be able to use
inside this for each is gonna be what
the element exactly
it's not it's not gonna be able to do
anything with the
with the index or the array because
there's no bucket right there's no
there's no index there's there's no
bucket for the index there's no bucket
for the array so the only thing we're
grabbing the only thing we're grabbing
is that element so the very first time
this runs wherever we see num it's
actually 10.
so what this winds up being
is
product
multiplied
by 10.
and so for folks that haven't seen this
syntax before it's the same thing as
saying this
product equals
product
times num so this is the same thing as
saying
one
times ten
reassigns product so product goes from
one to now being ten
all right
so i like the other syntax i think the
syntax the other syntax will be easier
to read for me
asterisk equals numb so all we're doing
is whatever product is is we're going to
keep multiplying the numbers in the
product so the very next time the goblin
runs
it grabs the two
and wherever we see num it's actually
two
so we wind up doing
times two
because product is currently 10 from the
last the last multiplication and this
time when num runs it is two
all right
the very last time the goblin runs it
grabs three
and wherever we see num it is three so
we wind up doing 20
times 3
and that means at the end of the day
product winds up being
and so we wind up alerting 60.
human hey thank you for the 10 months
i'm sorry three months
spending all that bezos's money i
appreciate you
where did numb come from i made it up
we could call whatever the heck we want
it's just the bucket
i can call this
call this uh
bing
bong
and then i would just have to call it
bing bong over here
all right all bing bong is is a bucket
all right
all it is is a bucket so
the 10
falls into that bucket the two then
falls into that bucket and then the
three falls into that bucket just a
bucket call whatever you want
this is the arrow syntax it's a slightly
way of doing a different way of doing
functions it's an arrow function a
special kind of function uh it's it's a
way of doing kind of almost it's a way
of doing an anonymous function in line
don't worry we'll eventually get to what
all that means next week with objects
and fun stuff
cool
alrighty
let's go ahead and keep pushing here uh
some folks want to see it without using
for each they want to see like the
traditional for loop so let me go ahead
and do that let me just comment out this
line
i'm just coming out this line and we
will do it with the traditional for loop
as well so same same deal
for
and then when i set up my calendar let i
equal
uh zero while i is less than uh
array.length
and we're just going to add one to i
each time it runs and then we're going
to do the same thing inside here we're
just going to do
product
equals
array
and then whatever i is
all right whatever array i is and so if
we run through this again
this might be a little bit clearer to
see is that we know that we're passing
in
this array
wherever we see array it's actually the
10 2
3 array so down here what we're doing is
we're saying array.length which is three
right so we know this loop will run
three times
and what we're going to do is the very
first time that this runs
array 0
is the 10. the next time this runs i
goes up by one array one grabs the two
the last time this runs after goes up by
one we're grabbing the array two which
gives us the three
and so it's the same thing we just wind
up multiplying the numbers in the
product
why do i have product equal one i just
like to know that i have my product
defined and that's the thing i'm
multiplying into i like seeing that it's
set at one there might be some shorter
hand ways of doing it but i like it to
be visible and know that that's the
product that i'm multiplying into
if it was zero we would wind up doing
ten times zero which is zero two times 2
times 0 which is 0 and 3 times 0 which
is 0. so if we started with 0 the only
thing that would ever get alerted is 0.
product is just the the variable that we
made up
why in some places do things not need to
be declared aka array and num that's a
really good question
so array and num are parameters right we
can see here that array is a parameter
and so wherever i see array it's not
technically a variable it is the
parameter that we're using so we don't
need to declare it it gets its value
when we pass the argument into that
bucket so array is the parameter
everywhere
and then if we let me just kind of
comment out the for loop again
and look at the for each loop
specifically
what we see here is that num
is yet again a parameter it is the
parameter for this function that we see
here so we don't have to declare it it's
a parameter that we pass a value into so
in this case we pass 10 into the
parameter we pass two into the parameter
num and three into the parameter of num
so they're parameters
not
variables they don't have to be declared
in that same way
good question
alrighty let's keep pushing folks let's
keep pushing
got a little bit more to cover tonight
don't worry if this is still hard if you
need to see this again that's okay
come back on sunday we're going to do a
normal office hour it's going to answer
about an hour of your questions and then
we're going to practice a raise so come
on back on sunday if you want to see
more array practice if you need to see
something like this again come back
we'll go do something similar to this
again
alrighty now
arrays i said earlier come with a lot of
really cool methods that do a lot of
heavy lifting for us
all right another nine hours no
i don't got another nine hours in me
that that's a that's a couple of times a
cohort thing
um
it'll be a normal i think like three
hours sometimes we do like two to three
hours on office hours normally
cool yeah just imagine people like
joining us from the
folks joining us from the review and
they're like wait a minute it's not at
nine hours every sunday
no we do like two to three hours
normally
alrighty we said earlier today that
arrays come with some really good
methods
and we've seen some cool ones already we
saw four each which enables us to loop
through arrays well there are some other
really cool methods that come with
arrays that i want to show you already
here is
a
variable that i'm assigning
an array to so i have
bestrappers2020
and on it we have
six nine ology
and six nine
and so what we want to do
is we want to be able to remove six nine
from this list okay
thank you for the posture check
hey thank you for the posture check let
me get in here
all right make sure i'm sitting good
all right
there we go
beautiful alrighty so we're going to
pull 69 off this list there's something
really neat that can happen
and that's that we have these methods
built into the array so since we have
this since we know this is an array we
can use a method here called shift
and what shift does
is it removes
it removes the value
that's
in the front of the array
so in this case we would shift off six
nine
from the array it actually changes the
array that six nine on the front of the
array gets pulled off the array
and we're left with just two elements in
the array and if we didn't store it in a
variable
it would just poof
right it would just poof and disappear
and so in this case what we've done is
we've shifted six nine off but we've
also stored it in a in a variable called
removed so if i ask for removed you
would get six nine
and if you went ahead and just console
logged best rappers 2020 you would just
see
polo g and six nine on the right hand
side
left so
if we can shift off the front
we can also do something called popping
and if you think shift pulls it off the
front what do you think pop does on the
other side
yeah
popped pulls six nine off the end as
well so we wind up right now with best
wrappers 2020 we have two values in it
polo g and six nine
pop
will pull six nine off the end
and we stored it in removed again so if
we needed it we could use it but if we
looked at best rappers 2020 we're left
with just
polo g
right we shift it 6 9 off the front
and we pop six nine off the back
and so now we're left with just polo g
cool
so if you ever need to pull something
off the front of the array what could
you use chat
if you ever need to pull something off
the front of your array what could you
use
shift beautiful
and if you ever want to pull something
off the end of your array what could you
use
pop
nice
alrighty now
we can actually do something pretty cool
shift pull something off
pop pull something off we also have
unshift
which will put something on the front
so what i have here is best wrappers
but what i have done is i am unshifting
dailon
so i'm putting dylon
onto the front
of the best wrappers 2020
array
and so if we were to console.log
best wrappers 2020 we would now see
dailon and polo g
so shift pulled off
pop pulled off
on shift
put dylon on the front
beautiful
we can also
push
so if shift pulls off from the front and
unshift puts on in the front
pop pulls off on the back
push
puts on on the back so if we look at
best wrappers 2020 to start we have
dailon and polo g
but then we push
dailon
onto the back
of the best wrappers 2020 array
and so what we wind up with if we were
to console log
best wrappers 2020
we'd wind up with dylan
polo g
and dilon
so these are all methods
right
these are all methods
right these are all methods
that enable us to interact with arrays
shift pull off
unshift put on
pop pull off
push put on all right and so right now
if we look at best rappers 2020
due to our
unshifting shifting popping and pushing
we're left with dailon polo g and dylon
now
there's another method that i really
like
and it's called map
what map does
is it loops through an array
but it creates a new
array
so if we have best wrappers 2020
and in it we have dailon polo g dailon
and we run map
on best rappers 2020
if we run map on best rappers 2020
what's gonna happen is that map will run
three times
because there are three elements
in our array just like for each would
run once for each element
map
is gonna run once for each element
however map is pretty interesting
because at the end
it spits out a new array
and so what map is going to do here
is it's going to take in
each of these values
but it doesn't matter what those values
are
because the only thing that map is going
to return
is dilon
so what happens is map runs once for
each element x becomes dylon then it
becomes polo g then it becomes dilon but
the only thing
that this map is spitting
is dylon
so if we were to look at
best rappers of all time
what it is currently holding at this
time
is dilon
dylon
dailon
and we're close
we have two things we have left to do
if we're trying to figure out the best
wrappers of all time we currently have
three values right we currently have
three values inside of this array
and so what we're going to do
is we are going to unshift
dialon onto the front of this array
and we are going to push
dialon onto the back of this array
and then if we were to console log
the best wrappers of all time
we would have
cylon dylon dilon dylon and dylon
this is peak education folks
i spit the hot fire
this is it it's all downhill from here
uh if folks don't get it this is a this
is a chappelle show joke so
um best rappers of all time are dylan
dylan dylan and dailon of course
so
yes i i
devised this whole lecture
to to to
get to dailon dailon dailon and thailand
already
let's get some last bit of practice in
and then we will
review and then we'll do a raid so let's
get some best the last bit of practice
in here let's go ahead and look at
winter game so i'm going to close all
these here
and let's look
at review winter games
and here it is
create a function
that takes in an array of numbers
return a new array
containing every even number
from the original array
you can try it one of two ways
you can try it with map if you want
or if you want a little bit more of a
challenge
you can try not using map or filter
okay
i know this is a jump a lot of folks
this is a jump this is going to be it's
going to be a hard jump
give it your best shot give it the old
100 devs try and put five minutes on the
clock and then we're gonna go over it
together
give it the good old 100 devs try i know
this one's a hard one it's all right
we're gonna go over it together in five
minutes
i rip and i rhyme my ramen i rip
way dilon spits
all right span it's all right
give it a good try if you don't know how
to do all the pieces get the function on
the board
get get a loop on the board right you
you don't have to
you don't have to get the whole win
right try as much as you can
if you're really stuck go back and look
at the slides try and pull pieces from
it don't just sit and and
wait
give it a try
this is a hard one we're ending with a
we're ending with a hard one here
don't worry you can come back on sunday
we're going to review we're gonna do
things more
we'll go over it together and then we'll
do a lovely raid
what does map do it moves through each
element in the array
moves through each element in the array
but it creates a new array as it does it
if you're confused on it mdn has really
good articles on all these methods you
need to see push pop on shift shift
again you need to see map you need to
see for each mdn
so that's okay these ones these ones are
tough these past especially the past two
practice problems are really tough i
don't
you don't really have to
feel bad if you're not getting these
ones these ones are tough ones for sure
make sure you do the homework that was
the array reading make sure you go back
and do the course that had a raise in it
about two minutes left folks
a minute left you got this dig deep try
we'll go through it together in the end
alrighty
dunzo is a fun problem i know this one's
a little hard glad you had some fun with
it
a lot of the reading covered some of
this stuff there's a couple readings and
a couple practices that use all the
methods we covered tonight and then
we'll do more practice on sunday as well
all right folks come together let's
let's do this one together
alrighty
so create a function that takes in an
array of numbers
return a new array containing every
number every even number from the
original array and the challenge was to
not to use map or filter so let's let's
see if we can figure this out
alrighty
function
and we're going to say
only evens
that's a good one
and
we're going to take in an array of
numbers so i'm just going to call them
nums
could call it a ray could call it robot
doesn't really matter just a parameter
and we are going to return a new array
containing every even number so what i'm
going to do is i'm just going to create
an array called evens
and i'm just going to create it using
literal notation
right call it literal notation and
create that array so it's just an empty
array right now that's where i'm going
to store all my even values
now what i know i have to do is i have
to loop through
the the
the nums like the nums array so
i can just do nums
and i can do four each
and that's where i'll start
and i know that i need to take in each
of the elements so
i'm going to call it
let's just
call it n short for for nums or i think
we've been calling it like element or
item let's just call it n
beautiful and so now what we need to do
is we need to see
if
if it's even what do we want to do
if we know that the number is even what
do we want to do
if the number is even what are we going
to do with it
yeah we can push it to the array we just
learned that we can put stuff into the
array with the push so let's check to
see if it's even
we can say if num we know how to do even
by now modulus 2 equals 0. so if it's
divisible by 2 and equals 0 we know it's
even
and what we're going to do is we're
going to
push push that value into the array so
we can do evens
dot
push
n
okay
and then
at the very end
return a new array so we have to return
that new array
so return
evens
okay
let's see if this works let's call it
evens
and let's pass in an array
let's do one two three
four
five
six
and so this works we would expect to see
two
246 returned
and we're going to console log this just
so we can see it
remember if it returns it'll just poof
into thin air unless we cut unless we
console log it
all right so i feel good about that
let's see we're at
and let's go and open this in the
browser
but i clicked on it there we go sorry
open in the browser
bachelor games let's open up the
inspector
look in the console
and we can see that there is an array
and the array has 2
and 6 in it so it worked we can see that
we console logged the array and that
array had 2
4 and 6 in it so let's go back and take
a look let's see if we can understand
what happened here but it did
it did work
can i show map come back on sunday and
i'll show you how to do it with map
first try
as that's definitely a first try
all right so let's take a peek
right now
we're calling the only evans function
only evans
only evens function
and we're passing in
right we're passing in
this array
so wherever we see nums
right
wherever we see nums
wherever we see nums it's an array with
1 two three four five and six in it
i go ahead and set up an empty array
with called evens
and then i loop through my array
and each time it runs
how many times is my for each loop going
to run how many times
is the goblin going to go and grab a
number
i'm gonna run six times
there are six elements in the array so
the goblin's to run six times
the very first time it runs
the goblin goes and grabs the one
so is one divisible by two
no
next time the goblin runs it's two
so is 2 divisible by 2 that is true
2 modulus 2 does give me zero so since
that is a true statement we go ahead and
do this line
and what we're going to do is we're
going to take this
and we're gonna push it
into that empty array
so now our empty array has two
sitting inside of it
then we move on the goblin goes and
grabs three
it passes in three three mod two is not
zero so that doesn't work
then the goblin goes and grabs four
wherever we see n it's four right so
four mod two well that is zero two goes
into four two times there's 0 left over
so this is a true statement we take 4
and we push it
into the evens array so now that evens
array has 2
and 4
inside of it
then the goblin goes and grabs five
wherever we see n it's actually five
two does not go into five evenly so
that's a false statement we don't do
anything
and lastly the goblin goes and grab six
wherever we see n it is 6
so we'll do 6 mod 2
right 6 mod 2
and
that is even 2 goes into 6 3 times it is
even so since it is true we do this line
we take 6 and we push six into the empty
square brackets so we wind up with
two four
and six
inside that evens array
and then we return that evens array and
it gets returned
wherever this sucker was called and it's
as though we put in two four and six
if you want to see it with a for loop
or you want to see it with a map
come on sunday i'll do them both on
sunday
of course i will always share my code
after class so i'm gonna zip all this up
you'll have the code play with it before
sunday play with it right play with it
make it do something different if you if
if i did it with a four each try doing
it with the four if i did it with a four
try doing it with a four each play with
this a little bit
you gotta
especially if it's not sinking in right
now
you got to get in the muck and play with
it we got it you got it you got to start
playing with the sand to build a castle
all right guys start playing with the
sand to build a castle so make sure
that you're going in
you're playing with the sand uh and that
you you you delete stuff you redo it you
delete it you redo it you delete it redo
it right make sure that you're still
playing that's how you're gonna learn
the most is by playing and building and
so come back and play and build with
this stuff
you're going to notice that there's a
lot more slides here
tons of stuff wink wink wink wink that
we're getting into next week lots of new
stuff that's going to be really fun and
exciting but please
get through the reading this weekend
this reading is really important to make
sure that it's not the first time you've
seen or heard of objects right
we're gonna be doing a lot of fun it
gets really fun next week is where i
think class gets really fun for me where
we start using apis and other cool
things and so
please get the reading done
please play with the code come back on
sunday and then tuesday i have the best
announcement ever
the thing i'm the most excited to have
ever shared with you all
so please come back on tuesday i'm super
super pumped to share that with you all
and i'll see some of you on sunday
before we do all that let's do a raid
you know we always like to spread some
love and positivity so please give them
some follows uh make sure that you hang
out for a little while i'll see you over
there and then i will share everything
on discord so let's set up the raid
we're going to
mifu ri
[Music]
alrighty i will see you all over there
starting up the raid now get those sweet
sweet sweet channel points thank you for
coming back and pushing your mind with a
raise for the second time i know it's
not easy so kudos to you for putting in
the work thank you for being here i'll
see you on sunday and i'll see you again
on tuesday for the best announcement i
could ever announce peace everyone have
a good rest of your day
let's raid